Add guide for the OCaml language (#381)
developer-portal/content: tech/languages/ocaml/ocaml-installation.md

---
title: OCaml
subsection: ocaml
section: tech-languages
order: 1
version: 1.0
description: An open source multi-paradigm programming language and toolchain. 
---

# What is OCaml?

OCaml is an industrial-strength programming language supporting functional, imperative and object-oriented styles.

## OCaml installation

To install the OCaml tools, type on a terminal:

```console

> $ sudo dnf install ocaml

Author: I search about it and seems this is it, the Fedora build comes from the .tar.gz from France National Numeric Institute who comes without `ocamlfind` and it's installed through ocaml-findlib package. I committed the change in my last commit.

```

The `ocaml` the REPL (Read-Evaluate-Print-Loop) tool of the language and `ocamlfind` the library manager, `ocamlc` the bytecode compiler and `ocamlopt` the native-code compiler binaries will become available on the system. 

> # OPAM 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# OPAM
```
Trailing whitespace.

OPAM (**O**Caml **Pa**ckage **M**anager)  is a source-based package manager for OCaml. It supports multiple simultaneous compiler installations, flexible package constraints, and a Git-friendly development workflow. 

To install OPAM in your Fedora just:
```console
$ sudo dnf install opam
```

To use OPAM to install and manage your OCaml instalation just:

> ```bash

Reviewer: This should be `console` since all this is to be run in a console, right?
````suggestion
```console
````

# environment setup

> $ opam init

Reviewer: Running this command gives me some options, could you explain in more detail here what the user can expect and what options are there? (Or provide a link where user can read more specifically about `opam init`)

> $ eval $(opam env)

Reviewer: Let's also explain why this `eval` is required please.

# install desired version of the compiler.
$ opam switch create 4.12.0
$ eval $(opam env)
# check you got what you want
$ ocaml -version

> ```

Reviewer: Please split up this section into smaller units. Splitting it up into smaller code sections concerning `init`, `switch create` to install the desired version and `ocaml -version` just as a "sanity check". I think that the comment, above each of the mentioned commands, expanded into a full sentence would be enough.

---
title: OCaml
subsection: ocaml
section: tech-languages
order: 1
version: 1.0
description: An open source multi-paradigm programming language and toolchain. 
---

# What is OCaml?

> Quoting the [ocaml.org](https://ocaml.org/) website:
> 
> > OCaml is an industrial-strength programming language supporting functional, imperative and object-oriented styles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OCaml is an industrial-strength programming language supporting functional, imperative and object-oriented styles.
```

I don't think a basic descripton can be in any way copyrighted. Especially if it's in Fedora (the license includes these texts).

Author: Ok, can I just remove the Quoting? Or prefer I rather change the description for a new one?

Author: Right figured out by your change, sorry.

## OCaml installation

To install the OCaml tools, type on a terminal:

```console
$ sudo dnf install ocaml
```

> The `ocaml` and `ocamlfind`, `ocamlc` and `ocamlopt` binaries will become available on the system.

Reviewer 2: Can you briefly describe what they're for, maybe showcase their basic use? Or at least point users to `--help` (generally), or some alternative.

Author: Ok, I will add it.

# OPAM 

> OPAM (**O**Caml **Pa**ckage **M**anager)  is a source-based package manager for OCaml. It supports multiple simultaneous compiler installations, flexible package constraints, and a Git-friendly development workflow. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OPAM (**O**Caml **P**ackage **M**anager)  is a source-based package manager for OCaml. It supports multiple simultaneous compiler installations, flexible package constraints, and a Git-friendly development workflow. 
```

Author: The a letter makes part of the acronym.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I've somehow missed that! Maybe make it a capital `A` then?

Anyway, it's up to you.

Reviewer: Minor nit, but let's not have trailing whitespace :)
```suggestion
OPAM (**O**Caml **Pa**ckage **M**anager)  is a source-based package manager for OCaml. It supports multiple simultaneous compiler installations, flexible package constraints, and a Git-friendly development workflow.
```

To install OPAM in your Fedora just:
```console
$ sudo dnf install opam
```

To use OPAM to install and manage your OCaml instalation just:
```bash
# environment setup

> opam init

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ opam init
```

Author: True, this make clearer, I will add it.

eval $(opam env)

> # install given version of the compiler

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Install desired version of the compiler.
```

Author: Ok, I will change this.

> opam switch create 4.12.0
> eval $(opam env)
> # check you got what you want
> which ocaml
> ocaml -version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ opam switch create 4.12.0
$ eval $(opam env)
# Check for desired version.
$ ocaml -version
```

Author: Right, I'll change it.

```

## References

> - [OCaml Documentation](https://ocaml.org/docs/install.html)

Reviewer 2: Is there any documentation for OPAM? Maybe list of versions?

Also, I find the [OCaml](https://ocaml.org/) main page has some examles / tutorials etc. Wouldn't that be helpful?

Author: I'll add OPAM docs.
Of course, I can add some pratical guides as refs for the language, really great improvement suggestion.

---
title: OCaml
subsection: ocaml
section: tech-languages
order: 1
version: 1.0
description: An open source multi-paradigm programming language and toolchain. 
---

# What is OCaml?

OCaml is an industrial-strength programming language supporting functional, imperative and object-oriented styles.

## OCaml installation

To install the OCaml tools, type on a terminal:

```console
$ sudo dnf install ocaml ocaml-findlib 
```

The REPL (Read-Evaluate-Print-Loop) tool (`ocaml`), the library manager ( `ocamlfind`), the bytecode compiler (`ocamlc`), and the native-code compiler binaries (`ocamlopt`) will become available on the system. 

# OPAM

OPAM (**O**Caml **Pa**ckage **M**anager)  is a source-based package manager for OCaml. It supports multiple simultaneous compiler installations, flexible package constraints, and a Git-friendly development workflow.

### Installation

To install OPAM in your Fedora just:
```console
$ sudo dnf install opam
```

### Environment setup

> You can use OPAM to install and manage your OCaml environment. To do it first is necessary to add the enviroment variables in your default shell, OPAM do it for you when you run the `init` command, and after it you can use `eval` in your first time to load the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use OPAM to install and manage your OCaml environment. First, it is necessary to add the environment variables in your default shell, OPAM does it for you when you run the `init` command, and after it, you can use `eval` in your first time to load the configuration.
```

```console
$ opam init
# the console will ask if you want to really modify your ~/.bashrc (or default), use 'y' to confirm.
$ eval $(opam env)
```

> After add the enviroment variables in your default shell you can install the desired version of OCaml compiler using the `switch` command and you can load the new enviroment variables running `eval` soon after it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding the environment variables in your default shell you can install the desired version of OCaml compiler using the `switch` command and you can load the new environment variables running `eval` soon after it.
```
